I talked to a young analyst who was
looking and tracking at Justin Trudeau's
declining popularity and he also was
tracking the number of mortgage renewals
that are happening each month and it
tracks perfectly then they look around
and say who's caused this and the
obvious answer is the guys who've been
in charge for the last N9 years and it's
happening in real time and happening
very quickly and it will probably
accelerate
[Music]
so I'm talking today to Premier Danielle
Smith of Alberta and uh Alberta is a
very interesting Province because it's
extremely energy rich fossil fuels in
particular and so Alberta is perhaps the
foremost jurisdiction in the world where
the battle between anti-human green
environmentalism and
the industries that promote cheap and
accessible energy is being fought and so
it's always interesting to me to
concentrate on the situation in Alberta
because it has International
repercussions so I'll give you an
example within the last two years both
the the leaders of Germany and Japan
have come to Canada asking for liquid
natural gas and Premier Trudeau our
narcissist in Chief has decided that
that interferes with his vision of I
don't know his progression through the
wef ranks or something like that God
only knows but we turn Germany and Japan
away cap in hand uh which was a colossal
error so that's a good example of why
what's happening in Alberta has
International significance so I talked
to Premier Danielle Smith very sharp
lady today about well about the conflict
between the energy industry and the
radical environmentalists being played
out in Canada
uh with Justin Trudeau being what would
you say the face of top down Global of
the top- down globalist utopians who
would ravage the poor in their
counterproductive attempts
to to fail to save the planet we talked
about the development of an Invitational
Vision on the conservative side what it
is now that conservatives have to offer
young people and it's essentially
something approximating the invitation
to the responsible adventure of life a
vision predicated on the idea that the
best things that you do in your life are
going to be the things associated with
your willingness to take
responsibility so we might as well Dive
Right In and uh attack something simple
and so that would be Bill c59 let's say
and the um what would you say the ra the
relationship between Federal Energy and
environment policies and well let's call
it the whole economy of the West and
probably of Canada as well so do you
want to First lay out the territory with
regard to bill c-59 because that was the
occasion for this particular
conversation well it's funny because
Bill c-59 reminded me of American
policymaking where ostensively it's
about one thing and then they stuff in
hundreds of pages of other things
knowing that it has to pass and all of
those terrible other addendums are going
to pass along with it because this is
the budget implementation act it had to
pass because our parliamentary system if
you don't pass the budget you end up
having to go to an election and so
you're ending up having to to swallow a
lot of terrible policy because there's
things in there that you support like
there's things in there that we do
support as well when it comes to some of
the the tax measures that they're taking
but what they slid in at the last minute
was this crazy policy that had initially
been put forward by one of our most
extreme NDP members of parliament
Charlie Angus who's who's not even
running again this is kind of his last
ditch effort I guess to try to have an
influence on the national stage and
Katherine McKenna the uh former
environment Minister as well she has
been hired on as a un Envoy on I don't
know if it's un Envoy on eot truuth or
something I don't know what it is but
it's very clear that she had an
influence in sliding into this budget
implementation Bill making it illegal
for the energy sector oil and gas to
talk about their positive environmental
record what they're doing to reduce
emissions the successes that they've had
in addressing the environment it's now
rendered essentially illegal unless they
can conform with some kind of
international standard for reporting
which is undefined nobody knows what
that is international standard who's
setting those what are they no one knows
and the industry is very fearful that
they're going to end up with a whole
pile of frivolous lawsuits that'll bind
them in the courts for months or in our
case of our country years and as a
result um this is what has happened the
energy industry takes the path of leaste
resistance they want to focus on on
creating prosperity and uh investment in
developing resources they don't want to
be fighting extreme ecojustice Warriors
about whether or not they were um
overstating any particular U measure of
their of their history so what we're
seeing now is the only people who are
going to be allowed in this space are
those who quite frankly many times are
are not telling the truth about our
energy sector um and I and I think
that's that that is not good for Canada
it's not good for our Province it's
certainly not good for the world because
we want to be the reliable provider of
energy to our trade partners and I think
that they've taken us a step backwards
with this a massive step backwards okay
so let's delve into this a little bit so
I do remember that this bill came up the
one you're referring to that now got
slotted in this bill came up perhaps a
year or a year and a half ago and the
buzz around it was that it essentially
criminalized speech that was related to
promotion of the fossil fuel industry
and there was enough of a fur around
that it seemed to kill it but obviously
it just went underground and reemerged
in this more Serpentine form very
underhanded move and so how Okay so
first of all why is this not
unconstitutional second why can't the
corporations already be prosecuted for
fraud if that's actually what they're
engaged in or false advertising and then
these enir International standards that
hypothetically exist who sets them even
in principle and like is that an elected
body or is that some unelected cabal of
top- down globalists like the UN so
let's start with
the well why isn't this an
unconstitutional move why isn't this
another obligation of free speech in
Canada it is and this is the thing
that's so remarkable is that I was
reading an analysis of the Liberals and
the Liberals are the most illiberal
government we've ever had when you when
you look at what liberalism Classical
liberalism is supposed to stand for is
supposed to stand for those foundational
freedoms foundational freedoms that I
thought were were enshrined in our
Charter of Rights and Freedoms certainly
enumerated in various bills of Rights
and freedom of conscience and the
ability to speak your mind is is is the
is the first enumerated freedom and yet
it is being trampled all over whether
it's with the internet um uh censorship
bills whether is the hollowing out of
the of the media and them having to
Scrabble after federal dollars and I
don't know what kind of strings attached
there are associated with that uh or or
whether it is what we're seeing now with
the with the speech codes whether it's
in universities professional
associations and now this is a new
speech code it's a speech code on the on
the energy sector the good news is um is
that they have a car vote for the other
orders of government and so as the
leader of the Alberta Government and we
are the owner of this resource oil and
oil and natural gas we own about 85% of
the resource I have made it very clear
that we we are not going to start stop
our advocacy what we hope to be is that
source of of solid information about our
environmental record and then by
providing that validation and showing
our work showing our sources we hope
that we'll be able to give that same
information to the other advocacy groups
and and industries so that we can all go
forward together but but that's the
situation we now find ourselves in is
that we're we're having to have a
government take on the role of being The
Advocate because they're crowding out
the private voices which which I think
has got to be the most IL Liber Al
approach to to take to to the to this
the discussion of these kinds of issues
so uh we are intending on behalf of the
industry to to challenge this from a
constitutional perspective and to
challenge it as well from a charter
perspective and so as we we we put
together that that lawsuit we will be
reaching out to others to see if they
want to join us as well because we we've
had some success in beating back the
Federal Government it takes years it
takes a lot of money that's why they do
these things is that because they have a
period of time where it is the law of
the land until you can get it struck
down to the various stages of the court
and in the meantime they put such a
chill on investment that they achieve
their target regardless because uh they
they've just put put it in as the as the
fact by having it implemented in their
in the parliament it's so irresponsible
what would happen if the oil companies
if the fossil fuel companies used
information that you had already
promoted that is what we're hoping okay
okay we're we're hoping that we'll be
able to almost provide a shield that if
uh if we become because you asked who
sets the standards well guess what I
think I think we set the standard I mean
we we under our Constitution have the
right to develop our resource and get
them to Market and part of getting them
to Market is also making sure that we
can tell the environmental message
because the other part of it too and
I've spoken with uh with energy
Executives about this as they're trying
to navigate through it they actually
have an international requirement in
reporting to their shareholders as
publicly traded companies to talk about
their environmental record so you can't
have both of those things you you have
to be able to give them that Latitude so
we we are hoping to be able to provide
them a bit of that shield and be able to
also lead on the legal issues and the
the judicial issues but the make no
mistake there's only one reason why this
was put into the legislation at the last
minute and it's because the the the
liberal government with their NDP
supporters want to want to crush uh any
confidence in developing our energy
sector they want to crush the production
of oil and natural gas even though they
use weasel words to try to pretend
otherwise there is a there's an agenda
to keep it in the ground we do not agree
we believe we can reduce
emissions okay so so let's let's delve
into that a little bit I
mean first of all what do you actually
think their vision for the Canadian
economy might be Canada is a very
resource dependent country and we've
done a very very bad job of
differentiating ourselves in a more
sophisticated way certainly certainly
under the liberal leadership in Ottawa
they've done a disastrous job of of
assuring an increase in Canadian
productivity I think we're now down to
60% on average GDP production per capita
compared to the US with real estate
that's twice as expensive right that's
it's it's worse than what's the state uh
oh I can't remember the it's the lowest
rank in United States state Canada is
now equivalent to in terms of GDP
productivity and with much more
expensive real estate so that's just
absolutely appalling so do you think
that underlying all this like what the
hell's driving this is this is this
merely climate paranoia of the type
that's fostered by the wef is that
what's going on it because it and is
there an idea that's lurking in the back
of what passes for the minds of people
like Steven guo something like the
promotion of degrowth because that's
actually the only way out of the climate
catastrophe like I don't understand
what's lurking at the bottom of this
precisely and so I'm wondering what your
thoughts are on that matter well I think
it goes back further I mean I started
studying the environmental movement when
I was an intern at the Fraser Institute
in in '95 96 and it was just after some
of the the early climate conferences but
that's when I I learned about the Rio
Summit and the role that a Canadian by
the name of Morris Str strong had had
played in asserting that we needed to uh
to to put up U an approach on a missions
reduction that was very aggressive and
there has been I think even it goes back
further than that to uh the club of Rome
concept I think came out in the late
1960s and early earlier than that the uh
Paul erck and limits to growth this
whole notion that uh the the the world
did not have enough resources to be able
to keep up with the population growth
that we would ultimately outpace our
ability to feed ourselves that was sort
of the the flawed principle that came
out of the late 1960s and and early 70s
I mean there was it was even if you look
at the the the the culture and how it's
shaped by movies you may recall the
movie soilent Green and it and it it
talked about U you know catastrophic
future which I think we've now
superseded in in the date that they
expected it to happen where they they uh
we'd run out of food so you had to have
a manufactured product to keep people
alive and so this is the I think the
flawed premise that goes all the way
back there and it doesn't matter how
much we're able to develop new resources
and Inc increase food productivity and
outpace the the uh the global population
with our production they still stay with
that flawed premise and you hear it even
today where they talk about you need
five Earths to be able to support the
number of people that we have on the
planet now well just it's just simply
not true because the way economics works
is as something becomes more more scarce
and precious someone will find a
substitute product um and it's been the
history that we always find a solution
to be able to to meet these concerns
that's how supply and demand works so I
think it goes back even further and and
one of the reasons I mentioned Morris
strong is he was an appointee in Justin
Trudeau's father's era uh in in Pierre
Elliot Trudeau's era and I I think that
that is the vision that our prime
minister has is he felt like that was a
moment of relevance for Canada is look
at us we are going to be the first to to
go forward on on these kinds of
aggressive policies and it's the only
way I can understand when he got
reelected for him to use the
international Forum he had to say
Canada's back and back in the worst
possible way for Canadians which is the
tax on productiv taxes on productivity
I've actually heard the carbon tax
referred to as a sin tax on Pro
productivity which which really helps to
identify the way they look at the
production of methane and carbon dioxide
and as and all of the attendant policies
that have been put forward we're we're
far more aggressive than any of our
trading partners in in establishing Net
Zero policies by 2050 no that's not good
enough it's got to be 2035 or 2030 or
we've got to have unrealistic targets to
phase out combustion engine Vehicles
faster than anyone else and I I think
it's really just this this flawed
interpretation of what it means to be
relevant on the international stage I
mean I think being relevant on the
international stage for Canada means
meeting our commitment on defense
spending being a reliable Ally when we
go into conflict zones making sure that
we have an an effective immigration
system so that we are able to uh
assimilate people into our economy and
not drive up and have massive inflation
manage our money supply effectively
manage our passports so that we can uh
we can ensure that we've we've got those
kind of documents available without
months or years worth of weights I mean
there's just some very practical things
that we can see the federal government
do to be relevant on the international
stage and CH about provide how about
provide natural gas to Germany and Japan
so like they ask
100% 100% I mean to have foreign this is
part of what I was observing in before I
got into this position is that the the
world assumes when they come to Canada
that the the leader the prime minister
of the country is going to be an
advocate for the country and an advocate
for the resource development it's part
of the reason we structured our country
the way we did we've given trade and
commerce powers and we've given
International Trade power agreements to
our federal government to to negotiate
on in our best interest on our behalf
and he's using it for the reverse he's
actually using it to put up trade barar
barriers not build the infrastructure
that we need and and interfere with our
ability to get our product to Market so
it's part of the reason I've had to take
the stance that I've had it's not it's
not the role necessarily of a provincial
Premier a subnational government to have
to go to the you know cop 28 or cop 29
International conferences but if we're
not there our voice doesn't get heard
our story doesn't get told we don't um
have an opportunity to talk to
international trading partners Partners
whether it's Germany or South Korea or
Japan or India about how we might be
able to solve their their energy
security problems so I found myself as
you've got a federal prime minister who
seems to be more interested in doing my
job talking about Dentistry programs and
a school lunch programs I'm finding
increasingly I'm having to do his job in
reaching out to the world and and making
them know that we we are going to be a
trading partner and we are going to be a
secure supply of not only energy but
food as well so those are those that's
the the weird upside down nature we find
ourselves in in Canada right now have
you ever browsed in incognito mode it's
probably not as Incognito as you think
Google recently settled A5 billion
lawsuit after being accused of secretly
tracking users in incognito mode their
defense quote Incognito does not mean
invisible even in incognito mode all of
your online activity is still 100%
visible to third parties unless you use
expressvpn without expressvpn third
parties can still see every website you
visit that includes your internet
service provider mobile network provider
and the admins of your Wi-Fi network
expressvpn reroutes 100% of your traffic
through secure encrypted servers so
third parties can't see your browsing
history expressvpn hides your IP address
making it extremely difficult for third
parties to track your online activity it
sounds complicated but I promise you
it's actually so easy to use just fire
up the app and tap one button to get
protected I love expressvpn because it
works on all of my devices so I can stay
secure when I'm on the go protect your
online privacy today by visiting
expressvpn.com Jordan that's
expressvpn.com Jordan and you can get an
extra 3 months free expressvpn.com
Jordan
today so a couple of things on that so
Paul Erick who wrote the population bomb
and his du kicking around made a very
famous bet with an economist Julian
Simon he asked Simon to um propose a
basket of Commodities and they bet on
whether those would be less or more
expensive by the year 2000 because that
was the doomsday date as far as Dr ERI
was concerned and he famously Simon who
was an absolute genius as opposed to
Erick who certainly presumed he was one
famously collected on that beted shortly
after the Millennium switch because the
basket of Commodities became far less
expensive rather than more expensive
there was more of everything and of
course the entire economic history of
the world since that point has indicated
exactly that and the reason for that
because it really started to accelerate
after 1989 was that the developing
countries in particular stopped
generating the absolutely catastrophic
economic policies that were part and
parcel of the Communist deal and just
mostly got the hell out of the way of
their people and all of a sudden we had
no problem whatsoever feeding the 9
billion people that are on the planet
and we could all we're going to Peak out
at some something like 13 maybe less and
there's absolutely no doubt that we can
manage that number of people so this
whole Zero
Sum this whole Zero Sum Terror streak is
a I don't it's a I think it's a means by
which those who wish to obtain power by
utilizing Fear Can terrorize the public
into giving them the Reigns it's
something like that now I wanted to ask
you more specifically about pollution
because sense is that the energy
industry in general has taken the wrong
tack with the green
environmentalists by trumpeting their
successes on the emission reduction
front they've LED Credence to the idea
that we Face say a carbon dioxide crisis
now I know particular emissions are an
unpleasant and unhealthy thing and it's
definitely good for companies to produce
the least amount of waste they can while
they're producing but I've been looking
as deeply as I can manage into the
carbon dioxide issue for about 10 years
and my sense is that if you take a
dispassionate look at the
data that carbon dioxide production on
behalf of the fossil fuel companies is a
net good and I have two reasons to
believe that and one of them comes
mostly from work that I got introduced
to through Patrick Moore because Moore
has documented what I think is the
unassailable fact that we are currently
in a carbon dioxide drought by by
natural standards extending back let's
say over a period of time of
approximately 100 million years time
frame really matters that we were
actually approaching a carbon dioxide
level that was sufficiently low so that
plants were struggling to survive and so
one of the things that's happened so
there's that and I I looked at his data
and it's not his data specifically but
the data that he's aggregated and it
seems to me to be much more powerful
than the alternative explanation that
you know compared to 500 years ago
there's more carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere it's like well what bloody
time frame are you looking at there guys
you can't just pick some arbitrary time
frame that fits your story so we're low
on carbon dioxide now one of the
consequences of that and some proof that
he's right is that NASA itself has
indicated that the planet has become 20%
Greener since the year 2000 and and
that's that's cool in a variety of ways
it's number one
20% is a lot it's a surface area
equivalent to twice the continental US
so like that's a big deal plus that's
produced a 133% increment in food
production because crops do better plus
The Greening has taken place in
precisely the semiarid areas where the
climate doomsayers said the deserts
would expand so they're not expanding
they're Contracting and so when I look
at all the data I mean you could make
the case that if we change the
atmospheric
constituents the rate of change is rapid
enough so there will be some disruption
and so maybe we aim for not rapidly
transforming large biological systems
that's a reasonable rule of thumb but on
the carbon dioxide side as far as I can
tell all the evidence is positive plus
there's another fact that bejor lomberg
has nailed home very effectively which
is that people don't die from heat
especially in the northern hemisphere
they die from cold and it's already been
the case that the measures taken by the
EU for example to recommend that people
turn down their thermostats have
produced a spike in deaths especially
among the elderly and so our enemy in
North isn't heat it's cold so so so the
reason I'm going through all of that is
because I think the fossil fuel industry
has made a big mistake like controlling
particulate pollution and and what would
you say the production of the kind of
waste that pollutes territory which is
you know a concerned with the oil sands
in
particular I can understand why they're
proud of
their accomplishments on that ground and
perhaps you could even give some credit
to the environmentalists for pushing
that along but on the carbon dioxide
Side by being apologetic I think that
they're just they're all they're doing
is validating the claims of exactly the
people you described and these are the
zero some anti-human depopulation ISS
that are motivated by of all people Paul
Erick who couldn't have possibly been
more wrong scientifically in his
prognostications you know and he could
say well what I said was true the time
frame was wrong it's like no buddy if
you're going to make a scientific
prediction you have to specify the time
frame you don't get to say well
eventually I'll be right it's like no
sorry that's not a bet or it is a bet
that you can't possibly lose and then
it's not a scientific hypothesis so I
don't know what you think about that but
I've been wrestling with this because
I've I've been very unhappy with the
environmentalists and they're anti-human
bent for a long time but it's actually
shocked me that when I took a what I
think is a dispassionate look at the
data that you can make a very strong
case that we know enough now to presume
that carbon dioxide increas
is a a beneficial byproduct of the very
fossil fuel industries that have enabled
us to lift the poor worldwide out of
poverty and that I guess that's the last
point one there's one other thing that's
relevant too lomberg reviewed data
showing that if you get poor people up
to a level of income that exceeds $5,000
a year GDP per capita their time frame
switches so that they start becoming
concerned about issues that will affect
their children and their grandchildren
because they're not scrabbling around in
the damn dirt trying trying to find
enough dung to have fire for lunch you
know and so they can think into the
future they start taking local
environmental action and so what that
implies and and the data support this as
far as I can tell is that if you provide
cheap energy to the poor which is
essentially wealth then they take a
long-term view of the world and they
start Greening the planet they don't
have to eat the animals that are local
like they start to have some wealth and
so they can concern themselves with a
Viewpoint that's 40 or 50 years long so
like that that's a lot of data on the
pro- fossil fuel side like a lot and so
I don't understand why the fossil fuel
industry and maybe well maybe the
Alberta Government as well just doesn't
like flip to the offensive instead
of even instead of giving the devil is
due because there's a big devil there
and you don't want to give it too much
due that is a lot to respond to one of
the so the essence of the question is
did the energy sector make a mistake in
trying to rise to the challenge that had
been put in in front of them um maybe uh
M maybe they became enticed by the
engineering challenge of being able to
do it uh maybe they became enticed by
the notion that they could figure this
out and as a result they uh began going
down a pathway of saying yeah these are
the kind of things we can do this is the
kind of progress that we're making uh
not really realizing that as they began
to make progress the goalposts would
continue to be moving moved because what
I have seen and part of my role in
government has been to see what industry
is saying and when I came in I heard
industry saying that they could get to
Net Zero by 2050 we we have a number of
projects here where they've already been
able to do that and it's gained because
of a a Marvel of technology and
Ingenuity they've figured out how to
capture CO2 and bury it underground um
in our and the reason why they did that
in our Province was for very good
reasons once capture the CO2 and you put
it in reservoirs that have been
depressurized you can actually
repressurize and you can develop more
oil so there's a very practical reason
why we develop this expertise and so as
the I think so that that is the the way
I would explain it is that because we
could do it uh the energy industry went
down a pathway of thinking they would
get remed by the market for doing it
that if if we become the best Barrel in
the market which is what everyone says
they want the greenest barrel of the
market we should able to get a premium
for that if we can develop the
technology to capture CO2 and and put it
to to useful purpose then that should be
ultimately able to develop a revenue
stream and those are good reasons
actually to to engage in in free
enterprise and and I would tell you that
that's the history of our energy sector
is that we we take a product that we
need it was initially kerosene and there
was a whole bunch of sludge left over
and then somebody said gee I wonder what
I could do with that sludge and out of
that velop petrochemicals and lubricants
and uh asphalt and all kinds of other
useful products we now get 6,000 barrels
or 6,000 products out of a barrel of oil
I think the industry looked at the CO2
challenge as just the next waste stream
that we've got to try to find something
useful for us to do with it and and so
if if it's framed that way that's why
I've been very supportive of the of the
industry and going down this pathway in
in fact part of the reason why we're
able to feed so many people on the
planet is something very similar it was
a a chemistry breakthrough of habbos
where they figured out how to capture
nitrogen from the air and turn it into
fertilizer but but this is I guess the
and I think you touched on it when I'm
so glad you told the story about Julian
Simon in the bat with Paul like I it was
very much in my mind as I was as I was
giving my my first answer to you but but
I remember when I got into property
rights advocacy which was very shortly
after my time at the Fraser Institute
and I I read an article about how the
way in which tyrannical governance
governments exercise control over their
populace they control energy and they
control food is that is that dual you if
you keep people impoverished and hungry
and you keep them unable to be able to
heat their homes or cook their food uh
that that is a way in which you if
you're if you're bent towards trying to
control your population as opposed to
seeing human flourishment those are the
two mechanisms that you use and so I've
been uh having read that article
probably in the n in the late 1990s it's
been fascinating and shocking and
disheartening for me to see that all of
the policies being devised by the
extreme environmental movement have been
to control exactly those two things make
energy more costly and less available
make food more costly and less available
and uh I think it it it comes down to
this fear that goes that has been
unsubstantiated that that that the that
it is is going to to result in in U A
Calamity for Humanity I I'm a I'm a
cornucopian I think that's the
alternative view is that is that the the
more we unlock human Inu Ingenuity the
more we feed people educate people give
them access to energy give them access
to to Innovation the the more we will
flourish the more things we will
discover and I think that is just a such
a more hopeful view of humanity so when
it comes to what should the energy
industry do now I don't mind the energy
industry still trying to take an
aspirational approach to continuing to
innovate and finding Solutions because I
think we're going to find some really
interesting solutions for for for CO2
since we already have found one that
actually makes economic sense but I
think that the we have to talk in terms
of why we want to continue delivering
this product we have to talk in terms of
eliminating Global poverty acknowledging
that three billion or more people on the
planet do not have our same quality of
life are cooking their food with with
dum and wood and coal dying of indoor
air quality problems I mean this is
something I've been very interested to
see that um uh Prince abdulaziz binan
alsad who's the energy minister in Saudi
Arabia uh when he gives presentations he
speaks very much along the same lines I
do yes let's reduce emissions but let's
also solve the problem of global poverty
we' we've got to bring everybody up to
our level first you cannot cut off the
Avenue for for prosperity in these
nations prematurely and I think that is
where the conservative messaging should
be is that yes let's continue to get
better and better at having less impact
on the environment but but let's make
sure that we're that we're bringing
everybody up the the radical left have
indicated very very clearly their
willingness to sacrifice the poor to the
planet right and this shocked me
actually you know because I could see a
tension developing between the low
energy prices that were clearly
necessary to continue lifting the
world's poor out of poverty which you
would think would be the primary concern
of the left right in principle they
stand for the marginalized and oppressed
and and in principle perhaps primarily
along the economic Dimension at least
that was the classic left that that had
that we had contended with dealt with
for you know a century in the west but
now we saw on the energy and environment
front that the nature worship that's
characteristic of the followers of AI
let's say Will trump any concern
whatsoever for the inhabitants of Africa
to to to point to one place in
particular right because the Africans
are energy poor as are the Indians and
to some degree the Chinese although
they're rectifying that very very
rapidly and so it seems to me that
there's an unbelievable opportunity for
the classic liberals who are willing to
divorce themselves from the idiot
progressives and the conservatives to
say no look if you want a real policy to
to alleviate poverty there isn't any
that you can do that even comes close to
the provision of cheap energy by
whatever means now you want to keep the
pollution under control but and then if
the and then if it is actually the case
that increasing wealth at the bottom
decreases environmental load which seems
to be the case or at least you can make
that argument and credibly then well
that's a pretty that's a win-win
solution for everyone no more poverty
and a and a
wiser populace with regards to
environmental issues from the bottom up
instead of the top down that's a good
vision and so it's an it's an excellent
Vision I'd add one more on top of it
because it it actually improves the
planet from an environmental point of
view and you'd mentioned be be Lomar and
I think Michael shellenberger has done
good work on this as well but one of the
things that I have heard as I've gone
out talking about the value proposition
that Alberta has to offer is I'm told
that if we don't provide that secure
supply of LNG so that they can be using
it for their energy needs they're
actually quite worried in in places uh
like the Asian countries and in India
that if we can't provide them with
whether it's ammonia or LNG or some kind
of hydrogen carrier that they're just
going to have to keep on developing coal
Farm of course they will of course well
and coal has advantages you can
stockpile coal like Matt all you have to
do is put it in a pile it's pretty
straightforward and so of of course
they're going to turn to Coal what
because there's there's absolutely no
way that these developing countries
where most of the people are are are
going to be able to withstand the
pressure from the population with
regards to the necessity of economic
growth and so well and we already saw
this REM Smith we saw this in Germany
the Germans took this demented tilt
towards green environmentalism and all
that's happened is that their
electricity is five times as expensive
as it should have been and they pollute
more not least because they have to burn
lignite that's how it's turned out liite
for God's sake the most polluting form
of coal they shut their nuclear power
plants down which was utterly insane and
so what's happened in Germany is ex is
there're more dependent on like Putin
for example their energy costs have
spiraled out of control they're
de-industrializing as a consequence and
they pollute more so like the only way
that's a victory is if all you wanted to
do to begin with was cause as much Havoc
and disruption as possible you know it's
funny you should say that because one of
my mlas in the legislature and and just
listening at at what our opponents in
the new Democratic party have to say he
came up with this formula that the
progressives have is that they identify
a problem and then they identify a
solution that will make things worse and
then they criticize conservatives who
have solutions that are actually a lot
more practical and may work and try to
demonize the solutions that we take but
it it you you're you're absolutely right
is that there's this uh maybe sort of a
uh you know it's plausible that the
approach that they would take would work
it's plausible that if you built out an
Economy based on nothing but wind and
solar and batteries that everybody would
have free electricity and it would drive
prices down and it would be unlimited
because the wind is always blowing
somewhere and the Sun is always shining
somewhere and if you just interconnect
it enough then it should work and I
think that that plausible lie has been
at the heart of why it is we've had such
dysfunctional policy around how we
develop our our energy sector you you
need to have reliable power that should
be number one it it shouldn't it should
go without saying that a fuel source
that only works 10% of the time in the
case of sun in our Market or 30% of the
time in the case of wind is not
something that you can power an
industrialized economy on and then on
top of that if you try to add everything
onto the power grid so that all of your
industrial use has to come from
electricity all your heating has to come
from electricity all your transportation
has to come from electricity
at at some point it gets absurd and gets
obvious that it is unachievable but I
think that there's this there's this um
aspirational uh approach that that they
put out there that people want it to be
true and so they in continued to endorse
policies that are completely incapable
it's impossible to be able to implement
them and it's our job as conservatives
to to understand where that aspiration
comes from because I think people are
good-hearted they actually want to have
less impact on the planet we all enjoy
our beautiful outdoor space
and so we want to make sure that we're
not doing anything that's going to to
impact biodiversity so I think that
there is a human need to be in touch
with nature that they're able to I think
take advantage of to propose policies
that simply won't work so we have to
make sure we understand where that
motivate human motivation is coming from
and say look we can achieve that a
different way and then we have to
propose what that different way is and
that's what we're trying to do in
Alberta well there's also there's also a
shadow side to that just like there was
a shadow side to
the fossil fuel Industries presumption
that if they marketed themselves in a
green way that that would be a net
economic advantage to them that that all
presumes that the people that you're
contending with are playing a fair game
and I actually don't believe that that's
the case with much of the environmental
nonsense I I feel that way for example
when I go into a hotel and I see signs
everywhere telling me that they're only
going to do laundry every two days
because they're saving the planet and
that isn't why they're not doing laundry
they're not doing laundry because it
saves money and fair enough but they can
cover that with this claim of
environmental virtue and so many of the
people who signal virtue signal on the
environmental side and this is
particularly true in the political realm
on the left are doing that not because
they care for the environment in the
least not if it came to actually making
personal sacrifices for doing something
about it they want to be seen to be the
saviors of the planet without doing any
of the work any of the background work
any of the research of the industrial uh
Innovation that would be necessary to
carry it out they want to be seen as
experts without noting for example well
how the hell are you going to
interconnect all the world's power grids
together what where are you going to get
the wire where are you going to get the
metal and isn't it a problem not only
that wind Works 10% of the time but when
it doesn't work you have to have a
parallel Energy System in place and if
that's not nuclear it has to be fossil
fuels and so then instead of having just
a fossil fuel grid let's say for the
electrical for our electrical
electrified economy you have to have a
wind and a solar grid plus a fossil fuel
grid well how in the world could anyone
with any sense whatsoever think that
that constituted an improvement
especially when you also decide let's
say to take nuclear out of the equation
which is the last thing you'd do if you
actually cared about carbon dioxide
production and so my for me it's mostly
it's not even there is an element of
care with regards to Environmental
sustainability but there's a much larger
element of being seen to be to be seen
praying in public to put it bluntly to
be seen virtue signaling with no effort
and so that NDP in particular are good
at that but it's interesting I don't
just blame the environmentalists and I
don't just blame the uh the politicians
I I I do have to blame the the companies
themselves and the industry themselves
Michael schellenberger once again is he
did a an assessment of how did nuclear
get demonized the way it did and I think
he's traced it to some proponents in the
natural gas and traditional fuel
industry that demonized nuclear well
then of course then of course wind and
solar come along and now they're the
ones demonizing coal and oil and wind
and and now we're in a position where
because they're trying to Virtue signal
get a market Advantage I'm not sure now
now we have a situation where where
virtually none of our fuel sources are
considered to be green enough nuclear
nuclear has of course the issues of of
how you deal with the with the waste
wind and or coal oil and natural gas
we're dealing with uh carbon dioxide
emissions hydroelectric it's not
considered green in the US because it
damages biodiversity you have to flood
vast areas so and wind and solar I mean
I think I may have made this point with
you before I'm sorry like as long as
we're taking coal and turning it into
solar panels that is not a a a a a zero
emissions product as long as you're
needing to use coal to create the steel
that goes into the wind turbines that is
not a zero emissions product either so
so if you want to start saying I'm
greener than you you you have to to look
at the entire supply chain and now we're
in a point where there there is no
answer the fuel that might have been the
goal like if the if the goal is degrowth
De industrialization and population
reduction then the demonization of all
industrial fuel sources is perfectly in
keeping with the underlying ethos of the
of the radical types and that is what
that is what's been driving this as you
rightly pointed out since the early
1960s I wonder if they've gone a step
too far now though on attacking
agriculture because they've been waiting
to do this and I've been watching this
for some time I've been giving speeches
for years telling our bee Farmers as
well as our our food other food
producers that they started with a
campaign against coal they shifted to a
campaign against fra they shifted again
to campaign against oil sends now
they're shifting uh again to to food
production and and they were very
delighted after cop 28 to say oh good we
finally got food on the table and I
remember reading an article from an
extreme environmental website decrying
the fact that 80% of food production
comes from fossil fuel energy they need
fossil fuels to be able to to operate
their equipment and be able to get the
grain to Market and do all the
transportation but when you look at when
you attack our food producers it
dramatically backfires look what
happened in the Netherlands um Denmark I
have just read is now putting a tax on
belching and and flatulating cattle a
$100 carbon tax on on cows and and you
have to wonder at what point are people
going to say enough is enough because
I'll have to tell you like the next
logical step is if belching and farting
and breathing is now a sin how long
before they start putting a carbon tax
on human beings because guess what we're
all belching and farting and breathing
uh creatures as well so I think they may
have overplayed their hand in in going
after our food producers our our food
producers are some of our most highest
esteemed Industries and Professionals in
any economy certainly far above um uh
lawyers and Ed car salesmen and
politicians and so to go after our food
producers in this way it it doesn't make
sense especially since the entire
practice of food production is
understanding the carbon cycle that the
when you have a a a grain that you're
producing you have to capture CO2 from
the air it goes into the head of that
grain people eat it and then it gets
recycled again that the entire process
of food production works with the carbon
cycle and so for them to be attacking
the very nature of food production and
how the carbon cycle works I think
they've gone too far I think it's one
thing to apply this weird Paradigm on
industry I just don't think that that
they can carry it over to food
production without having the kind of
outcomes that we're seeing around the
world where where farmers are pushing
back and people are pushing
back it would be easy to toss all your
discipline to the side for the summer
but a life of greatness doesn't happen
by taking the easy route the Hallow app
offers an incredible range of guided
meditations and prayers that are
designed to help you deepen your
spirituality and strengthen your
connection to God this month Hala will
be launching a new challenge witness to
hope the life of St John Paul II Guided
by Jim cisel monor Shay and Jackie Angel
this challenge walks through the life of
this incredible Saint from his childhood
in Poland living through Nazi occupation
to his religious life during the Cold
War and his papacy at the turn of the
Millennium journey in this Challenge and
learn what St John Paul II meant when he
said quote there's no evil to be faced
that Christ does not face with us
there's no enemy that Christ has not
already conquered there's no cross to
bear that Christ has not already carried
for us and does not bear with us now Be
not Afraid download the Hallow app today
at hall.com Jordan for an exclusive
3month trial that's hall.com
Jordan yeah well we can we can certainly
hope that's true okay let's turn our
attention if you don't mind back to
Canada for a moment and so you know when
I was a kid
teenager Pierre Trudeau so Trudeau the
Elder
brought in the National energy policy
and devastated the Western economy and
so and that was a massive overreach of
federal power and and an invasion by the
feds into a domain that wasn't
constitutionally theirs and well and
things went very sideways in the west as
a consequence and now here we are 40
years later and we have his son in
office who is if anything as
narcissistic and less competent than he
was and we have what's essentially a
Schism in the Canadian structure I mean
so here here's one issue for example I I
found out recently that Quebec has
enough natural gas to supply its own
needs for 200 years or the EU for 50
given known reserves and the kekoa have
decided that they're not going to
utilize that resource even though they
sold the rights to its development to
someone who's back who they later turned
their back on so that's fun and at the
same time they're receiving massive
transfer payments from Alberta and
demonizing the Alberta economy as the
producer of The Very wealth upon which
they're dependent that doesn't seem
particularly sustainable to me and so
I'm curious like how do you
contemplate I know there is going to be
an election in the year and probably
Trudeau and his minions are going to
vanish into the haze with any luck but
how do you
envision a a relationship in a
continuing Canada given the mass split
between let's say the interests of the
West and the apparent interests of of
consumers and governments alike in
central Canada and particularly in
Quebec so on the optimistic side what
what do you see what do you see as the
way
forward well I if I was to express a
preference for Pierre Trudeau's approach
versus Justin Trudeau's approach I I
actually preferred the pier Trudeau way
because he just wanted to steal our
wealth he didn't want to destroy it this
this this trudo the younger actually
want to destroy our wealth and I I just
can't imagine how he thinks that that is
good for the entire country because
Alberta as you rightly point out is is a
major contributor not not only to the
prosperity of our own Province but
because so much of the corporate tax
revenue and personal income tax revenue
and sales tax revenue goes to Ottawa
they are a massive beneficiary of the
fact that we have a strong and growing
economy so my way of dealing with that
is to uh is to just point out they don't
really have a mandate to govern in uh in
any meaningful sense he he only got 32%
of the vote in the last election he had
a partnership with the NDP which I I see
um um jug meet Singh spends almost as
much time criticizing Justin Trudeau as
I do and yet he continues to prop he's
the worst hypocrite in Canadian politics
ever I think and people are seeing it
because look at the result that just
happened in Toronto where an
historically liberal writing not only
did the Liberals lose ground but the D
and's lost ground as well both are
seeing I me the the public is seeing
that they are they are one and the same
in the kind of damage that they're
causing to our economy now talking about
Quebec uh every time I I see my my
colleague uh Premier F go I I remind him
that he has the ability to solve his own
energy problems and it's going to get to
a crucial point in Quebec and I'm quite
interested to see how it plays out you
you may recall that uh Quebec signed a a
very favorable deal for the Churchill
Falls hydroelectric power which is
located in New fin Labrador a 70-year
deal that has the value that they pay
going down over time if you can even
imagine I think they're only paying a
fraction of a cent right now for access
to that power problem is that deal Runs
Out in 18 years and we're already
beginning to see the impact that is
having on their Market that they can't
offer 20-year power purchase agreements
to new industrial installations because
they don't own the right past 18 years
and they're now going to be at a point
where their energy export as I've seen
National Bank just did a a study on this
where their energy exports are going to
fall off their energy exports have been
part of the reason why they've been able
to continue to not only get money from
the uh western Canada but also have the
ability to subsidize their own
population and so the model is falling
apart in Quebec and the solution is very
obvious um it is not to build more Hydro
electric plants we've we've now seen
that hydroelectric can take even longer
to build than a than a pipeline in our
country in in British Columbia site SE
began in
1954 and it took decades before they
finally got to a point where they could
build it and now it's massively over
budget for the amount of of megawatts
that are coming on stream and so that
isn't going to be a solution in Quebec
the solution is the one that we're
pursuing natural gas um I call it a
destination fuel not just a transition
fuel it's both but even if you use the
language from the agreement that came
out of out of the cop meeting last year
they talk about how important natural
gas is as a transition to whatever comes
next and that transition maybe it's into
a hydrogen economy and I would I will
put it to uh Quebec every time I see
them that that's what they should be
focused on how do you use the technology
that we have already developed to be
able to capture the CO2 maybe put it to
a useful purpose develop out your
hydrogen economy develop perhaps that an
ammonia economy they have the ability to
solve this problem themselves but they
have become so invested in a negative
approach to how we talk about uh the
traditional resources or fossil fuels
that I don't know if if they'll be able
to have that conversion I'll be watching
to see but they're very they're power
constrained now they're just not going
to be able to grow their economy unless
they figure out how to be able to bring
in a secure Supply and a an affordable
supply of electricity and it might
change the country you know it might
change the country for Quebec to become
more pragmatic I can imagine a the world
would be very very different if um
Premier Lego was to say you know what we
are going to develop our resources for
the benefit of the of the Quebec people
he's always been very effective at
saying that if he framed it that way
that not only can we help the Quebec
people bring our the the prices down but
then we can also help our our friends in
Europe by being able to export this
product to them so that they don't have
to rely on Rogue regimes uh in order to
be able to to meet that demand so
there's there's such a strong argument
to be made but it's going to be up to to
Quebec in their own language and their
leaders to to have the courage to make
that
argument sleep is a foundation for our
mental and physical health in other
words you've got to have a consistent
nighttime routine to function at your
best but if you're struggling with sleep
then you've got to check out Beam Beam
isn't your run-ofthe-mill sleep aid it's
a concoction carefully crafted to help
you rest without the grogginess that
often accompanies other sleep remedies a
bunch of us here at the daily wire count
on beam's dream powder to knock us out
and sleep better through the night so we
can show up ready for work the next day
just mix beam dream into hot water or
milk stir or froth and then enjoy before
bedtime then wake up feeling refreshed
without the next day grogginess caused
by other Sleep Products dream contains a
powerful allnatural blend of RI
magnesium eleanine appenine and
melatonin to help you fall asleep stay
asleep and wake up refreshed and with it
now being available in delicious flavors
like cinnamon cocoa chocolate peanut
butter and mint chip better sleep has
never tasted better and today listeners
of this show can get a special discount
on beam's dream powder get up to 40% off
for a limited time when you go to shop
beam.com Peterson and use C Peterson
checkout that's shop
beam.com Peterson and use C Peterson for
up to 40%
off right okay okay so now let me ask
you if you don't mind I'm I'm curious I
guess on the personal side how do you
manage your relations with the people
who are in power in Ottawa I mean you
guys are so much in opposition with
regards
to everything I can possibly think of
like it's a very strange situation for a
country to be in because particularly
Alberta because Alberta is at the center
of this but it seems to me that it's the
West in its entirety in so far as it's
got its head clear I mean I know British
Columbia tends to be a very odd place
politically but the other the three
Prairie
Provinces everything the federal
government does is antithetical to their
economic future and so how do you manage
that professionally and personally given
that well as you said you know we have a
situation where our prime
minister is the enemy of our economic
engine fundamentally and really
fundamentally it's it's perhaps you know
I I suspect that he believes that his
legacy and you alluded to this his
legacy is something like planetary
savior of the environment with Canada as
the shining example right it's something
like that and I don't know maybe he has
an eye to some unicure after he destroys
the liberal government and and brings
its brings his party to its knees and so
he's playing an internationalist game
and obviously seems much more interested
in that so like I don't understand
exactly how you manage this practically
it is I find an intermediary um and my
intermediary right now is franois Philip
champag who actually really is a great
booster of all things Canada he he he he
does care about investment He does care
about job creation and he's been able to
find ways to support projects that that
have taken place in in our provin just
as enthusiastically as he supports
projects in Quebec and and Ontario so
there's that there's the there's there's
this also strange dichotomy that we have
a prime minister who's been in power for
nine years and we did actually see two
pipelines to the coast get built under
this prime minister so Trans Mountain
pipeline is just open and it's changed
everything for our markets for our our
our bitchman product and Coastal Gas
link is completed and we're just waiting
for the commissioning of LG Canada to be
the first project that will allow us to
to export LG and that'll change our
natural gas markets as well so I I have
a hard time understanding that that on
the one hand there there must be enough
pragmatic voices with within his his
cabinet to move those kinds of major
projects forward even though they're
massively over budget even though it
takes uh much longer than it than it
should even though it's it's tied up in
red tape and and permitting rules
somehow those two projects manage to get
completed so it's up to us to try to
find a pathway we we we try to to find
the areas where we can agree partner on
those areas and then just hope that they
don't do more damage in the time that
they have between now and the and the
next election
the thing that worries me is I see an
acceleration of the Steven gibo our
environment Minister I see an
acceleration of him trying to push
forward with as many of these extreme
policies as he possibly can before that
deadline ends up getting getting met and
I don't I don't know if they're going
for broke if they just think well we're
going to lose anyway so we may as well
get all of this on the table because it
will take years to undo or if they
honestly think that that making energy
and food more expensive for all
Canadians is somehow a winning strategy
I mean against everything else that they
must be seeing in the environment
they're plummeting poll results the
plummeting results of the NDP the fact
that they continue to forge ahead is a
bit of a mystery to me it would seem at
some point they've got a clue in ah what
we're doing is making life more
unaffordable for Canadians it's reducing
productivity which is is reducing
take-home pay it's making people feel
more impoverished this is going to
impact our our poll results and yet they
some haven't managed to draw that
connection yet no look it's it's
something I think there's a combination
of things the first is that every
sacrifice is worthwhile if you're
hypothetically saving the planet and the
psychological benefits of patting
yourself on the back for doing that in
spite maybe even of your own
self-interest are not to be
underestimated it's a serious
psychological motivation it's it's a
religious motivation essentially it's
fundamentally it's fundamentally
something appro IM ating the return of
nature worship and I really I really
mean that right all the way down to the
bottom because whatever the planet is
whatever the environment is these vague
terms takes absolute priority over
everything else and that's essentially a
religious what would you say it's a
religious Endeavor and then I would also
say because I do believe that we have no
shortage of narcissists among the
leadership of our federal government
that
as the Prime Minister becomes
increasingly unpopular we which was part
of his goal was to be the Golden Boy to
be the popular man that as a wounded
narcissist he will have no shortage of
reason to take revenge so if you can add
to that the Do or Die mentality of the
like dieh hard green environmentalists
like quill bow they're going to be
slotting in every conniving bit of
wording they can possibly manage between
here and next October so and they'll be
feeling very morally virtuous for doing
it it's like well even though everyone's
against us we're still holding the
course you can see that with with what
freeland's response to Trudeau's loss in
Toronto you know I mean they should be
clamoring for his
head and I guess we'll see what how that
unfolds because it does sound like some
voices are I get I I guess I just like
the old the the old style of liberal the
ones that actually LED with their heart
and compassion I mean we we used to have
a liberal party that that talked about
the single mom and the difficult time
that she's having being able to pay for
groceries and take her kids to soccer
practice we we used to care they used to
care about the Tradesman who's lost his
job because of whatever downturn has
happened or whatever consolidation has
happened because of these additional
regulations they they used to care about
the the the average family just trying
to make ends meet and I don't hear them
talking that way anymore it it's uh it's
that's the thing that so surprises me is
where did all of that heart where did
all that compassion go th those are the
things that that that P POV is talking
about right now I I hear I hear Pierre
talking more about the plight of the of
regular people and and the difficulties
that they're having making ends mean I I
I know that that that is very much on my
mind about how do we counteract all
these terrible policies so that people
can just uh afford the basics of life
and I I don't know when the Liberals sto
caring but it's so obvious that what
you've described is true that they're
not putting people first anymore yeah
yeah well it is very interesting to see
while Ford has done the same thing in
Ontario that Ford and pev have really
become the voice of the working class
and I see the thing is you kind of see
that with Trump in the US too and I
think it maybe it's because we've
actually developed the realization on
the classic liberal and conservative
front that there is no better pathway
forward for rectifying the economic
misery of the poor than the free market
system and so to the degree that that's
the case and now I think the case for
that is unassailable unless you're
criminally literally criminally blind
that it's easy now for cons the
conservatives who used to be the party
of big business let's say which is kind
of what they were when I was a young guy
to be speaking directly to the working
class is we're going to declutter the
system we're going to get rid of the
idiot environmental taxes that do
nothing but make your life more
difficult and increase pollution and
we're going to serve you and I think POV
has done that very effectively now can
you
envision how do you feel about the unity
let's say of the conservative movement
in Canada now there's a number of
conservative Premier who seem to be
ideologically on board with your
approach there's Scott Mo and Blaine
higs and and so at minimum and so and
and I don't know what your relationship
is like with Doug Ford and then we have
paev of course who's a RIS R in Star and
is very much likely to be the next prime
minister I mean so what's is your view
of Canada's future at the moment
optimistic fundamentally and if it's
optimistic what is that optimism
tempered by let me just add one more
preamble to that see I'm afraid that
what's going to happen is that the
Canadian economy is far worse than
people think and that we're going to
discover a lot of things under the
carpet that were hidden by the Trudeau
government now the evidence of that is
he has a Scandal every week that should
be sufficient to bring down his
government like the last Scandal we just
had about the airlifting of the seek
people out of Afghanistan it's one a
week and so we're going to see a lot of
things that we don't know about the
second Pier POV is elected and they're
going to be instantly blamed on him by
the environmentalists and the greens and
then he's going to have maybe four years
to mop up what is one god- awful mess
and so you know I could see a scenario
where he's in for four years
all those Canadians who have to
remortgage which I believe is about 60%
of them are going to do that and lose
their houses and it's going to be like
really a rough go for him and then the
Liberals are replacing so now you know
that's a pessimistic View and I'm not
saying that will happen but man it isn't
obvious to me that I'd like to be in his
shoes so like how are you
conceptualizing let's say the next five
years in Canada and and your when's your
next election my next election is
October of 2027 so I have a a bit of
Runway um the i' I'd make a point that
and you've you've touched on you've
touched on and you've hit it I I I
talked to a young analyst who was
looking and tracking at Justin Trudeau's
declining popularity and he also is
tracking the number of mortgage renewals
that are happening each month and it
tracks perfectly the more people who are
having to renew their mortgage and now
face the sticker shock of having double
the mortgage payment because of their
High rates that then they look around
and say who's caused this and the
obvious answer is the guys who've been
in charge for the last nine years who's
got a solution for it and the obvious
answer is Pier PV and so that's very
linked to what it is that they're
experiencing and it's happening in real
time and happening very quickly and it
will probably accelerate I would say
that um am I optimistic about
conservatism I would say that the
conservatives this new generation of
conservative leader whether it's Pierre
or whether it's my colleagues across the
country uh we're we've begun to realize
that
aspirationally um the the blue color
workers and those trades unions are more
aligned with with our conservative
values than they are with the extreme
green uh alignment that we're seeing
under the Liberals the green party and
and the the Socialists the new Democrats
if I if I was a a Frontline worker I
would say why in the world would I
support any of those parties because all
they're doing is advocating for job
losses they they they don't want to see
these re high paying resource jobs be
success uccessful they they haven't
invested in raising the parody of of
esteem for the skilled trades and
professions the way the way we talk
about it in the conservative movement
and part of the reason that we do is
that is that we've seen the pathway that
kids were told kids were told well
graduate from high school go to
university and get a bachelor degree and
then after that get a MERS and then
after that get a PhD and then you will
be the highest uh paid uh workers in
society because the more education you
have the the more the more you're you're
going to get paid and and what has
happened in fact well those kids who'
have gone down that pathway end up with
one or $200,000 worth a student loan
debt and now they're in their late 30s
and trying to get out of the workforce
and their degree isn't disvalued as much
as they were led to believe it was going
to be and now they're trying to get
married and get a home and now the home
prices have escalated and so now they
have to put off having kids because they
can't afford to have kids pay a mortgage
and pay off their student loan debt but
there's another way you can actually
encourage kids who are practical and
want to do something with their hands
and want to do some meaningful work in
the resource sector go out get dual
Credit in high school maybe have a
couple of years at a a trades in a
trades program you start working right
away making 60 to in some cases these
jobs are $200,000 a year you become an
immediate taxpayer you pay off your debt
you have the ability to to buy a home or
build a home because depending on the
profession that you go into then you can
get married you can have kids you can
buy your house you can afford your life
it's a different vision and I that's why
I think that that we understand a lot
more about how vitally important those
high-paying resource jobs are is it is
it's not just about e economy it it's
about human flourishment it's about
being able to live the life you want to
live and most of us we just want to find
our lifemate partner uh be able to to
get married be able to have kids be able
to take care of families take vacations
go camping and and do those kinds of
things that that when we look back to
our own childhood seem to be could be be
getting further and further Out Of Reach
but I think that are linked that's why I
think the approach that Doug Ford has
taken and the even in the approach in
the United States where the Republicans
realize that the the the the Frontline
blue color workers have have way more in
common with the conservative side of the
spectrum these days than the ideological
side that we're seeing in the in the in
the extreme green movement that is
influencing all the progressive
parties so I've been thinking about
messaging on the conservative front for
quite a while and maybe that's what
we'll talk about on The Daily wire side
at least to some degree and you know so
I'm going to go down into the bottom of
things for a moment so I've been writing
a book recently on uh stories of the Old
Testament and partly because I think
that what's at the basis of the current
culture war that besets us is actually a
religious battle fundamentally it's a
battle of first principles and that's
what a religious warri is it's a battle
of first principles and there's a very
interesting representation of the Divine
in the Old Testament in particular in
the Old Testament and God is portrayed
in the Old Testament as something like
the dynamic between
conscience and
calling and so you see the voice of
conscience emerge in the story of Elijah
for example who's a prophet that appears
with Christ when he's transfigured on
the mount and you see the idea of
calling in the story of Abraham who
called to the adventure of his life and
also in the story of Moses who's spoken
to by the spirit of the burning bush
before he becomes a leader so there's
this Dynamic and it's a interesting
dynamic because it maps onto the
political domain almost perfectly so
conservatives are
conscientious and Liberals are open and
open people are creative and
entrepreneurial they invite and
conscientious people they draw draw the
lines they draw the borders you know now
the problem for the conservative types
who are conscientious is that it's much
easier to appeal to young people with a
vision and conservatives are very bad at
propagating a vision to young people and
so that void has being filled by the
environmentalists on the leftist side
because they offer young people an easy
Pathway to moral virtue and to sort of
planetary messianism right it's like
Ally yourself with the marginal
celebrate the environment and your work
is done right and which is a really
appalling it's a really appalling thing
to teach young people because their work
hasn't even begun but it is an easy out
whereas the conservatives are always
saying no don't do this don't do that
don't do this don't do that and that is
the voice of conscience but you know you
touched on the possibility for the
conservatives to offer something that's
much more in keeping with the vision and
at minimum that's the pleasures and
responsibilities of the typical upward
striving say middle class life that's
characterized the American dream it's
like that's not so bad graduate find
something useful to do become an
apprentice let's say so that you can
actually make some money find yourself a
long-term stable monogamous partner have
some children right at minimum you've
got a life going there the the basics of
a life and if you can add some
additional Adventure on top of that so
much the better you know Danielle one of
the things I've really
noticed in my tours now I've probably
spoken to 800 cities now something like
that over the last six years there's
something very interesting that always
happens in my lectures when I discuss a
certain topic so I've been able to draw
a line between the idea of
responsibility which is a very
conservative idea and the idea of
Adventure which is a much more
entrepreneurial and liberal idea because
one of the things I've learned is that
the oldest stories that we possess
make responsibility and Adventure
equivalent they're the same thing and so
one of the things that so and whenever I
point that out to my audiences they go
silent that's invariably the case and i'
I've literally watched that who knows
how many hundreds of times many and I've
made a point of observing it because
it's so striking so you know you can
tell people look if you look at your
life and you're trying to come to terms
with your conscience you're trying to
decide whether you've lived a life worth
living and you review your progress
forward you will invariably conclude
that those times that you stepped out of
your way to adopt excess responsibility
were the times that you were at your
best and so and no one's told young
people that since like
1962 that's a long time and
conservatives have that right at their
fingertips right they can say look what
we had are fun the fundamental building
blocks of Western Society with all of
the freedom that that produces that
enables you to take the responsibility
for your life in this subsidiary manner
that the Catholic Social theorists talk
about take on that responsibility
because it makes you Noble it makes you
adventurous it gives your life meaning
right you're living for other people
then and and for the future and not for
your narrow present centered self which
is what the left is always selling you
know in this prideful Hedonism that's so
much part of their marketing now if the
conservatives don't have anything to
offer other than know in the face of
that they're going to lose especially
among young people but if they tell them
look take some
responsibility have your adventure the
young people think oh that's the pathway
is it and so and I think that's part of
what's driving way down deep that
emerging alliance between the working
class and the conservatives the working
class knows this even if it's not
particularly well articulated you know
the American dream is predicated on the
idea that if you make the proper
sacrifices your children can Thrive and
that's true if the state is functioning
properly it's like the Hallmark of a of
a properly functioning State and so you
know I can see reason for optimism on
the conservative side if if the
conservatives can learn to be
Invitational you know and to say look we
actually have a better path it's not
merely that we're forbidding you or that
we're burdening you with Duty which is
you know I can understand that but but
you could have both you could have both
because the left has left both on the
table I think you're right about that
the um I was struck by Bill Maher who
has not really been a friend to
conservatives but in in talking about
some of these issues he said the
progressives are the ones who put their
foot on the gas and the conservatives
are the ones who put their foot on the
break and he said and you know what on
some of these issues I think it's time
to put on the break like I think we all
want to see progress but we we don't
want to lose the things that are
actually working in pursuit of some kind
of future that's unattainable and
whether that is some of the cancel
culture that we've seen some of the
wokeism that we've seen some of the uh
extreme environmental rhetoric that
we've seen I think people are are are
realizing that that's kind of getting
away from what it is that we're we're
all here for we're all here to to do to
self-actualize and be the best that we
can be and find a partner so that we can
help them be the best and then as a team
you you create a a family that and
hopefully nurture children into
adulthood so that they can go on and do
wonderful things and then you're also if
you can create a business because you
are creative that is another aspect of
conservatism and then when you're
successful you give back through
philanthropic causes I mean I find it to
be a a far more human centered and um a
far more supportive approach for basic
humanity and all of our aspirations than
what I'm seeing on the other side uh and
I think maybe you're you're right is
that by by speaking more in terms of
values as opposed to scriptural precepts
maybe that's a little bit more embracing
to people I mean there's some good
Commandments in the Ten Commandments
there's some pretty good rules to live
by there you don't don't steal don't
cheat don't lie don't cover your
neighbor's property and others and so
there's some good rules about how you
can live the good life that are there
and I think that that's that's part of
what maybe young people are searching
for I I have uh such dismay at uh the
the the lack of motivation that we see
among the young people the the despair
the isolation the loneliness the mental
health and addiction crisis that that is
is at its foundation has got to be a
spiritual malaise they people are
missing something missing connection and
if we can find a way to say this is the
way that you reconnect we we promote
these things um we promote U making a
long-term bond with somebody we promote
family be because it's good for you as
an individual it's good for societ as a
whole as well but these are things that
will make you happier in in your in your
old age I I I had a CH they will make
you better I had a chance to go to Brian
mone's um celebration of life he was of
course our prime minister back in the in
the 19 uh in in the 80s and and that was
the reason I got involved in politics is
I I thought he had done a lot for our
country he brought down interest rates
he brought down inflation he ended the
national energy program he had he
brokered free trade he's got some big
things he did right something things he
did wrong that ended up I think costing
him his uh his his time to be prime
minister but what was so beautiful was
you open up the page in the celebration
of life and it had his beautiful family
his wife who was at his side for their
entire time together beautiful kids next
generation of grandkids uh I think all
of those all of his kids have two or
three kids each and you just look at
that picture and you say that's his
legacy he did wonderful things for the
the country absolutely but I bet the
most thing he was most proud of was the
fact that he had that beautiful
connection with a a loving spouse the
supportive network of his family and he
was able to create an environment where
they all could do well that's that to me
is really inspirational and if we can if
we can communicate that in um a way that
helps young people get some restored
hope and creates a pathway for them to
realize that they can have all of that I
think conservatism will be on the rise I
think we're we're just beginning to to
find the language around that U maybe we
took it for granted that parents would
pass that on to kids and GR kids because
there has been a bit of a break that's
happened I don't know if I I fully
understand exactly why um we got so
disconnected and isolated but I think
that that's what conservatism has
fragmented families have something to do
with it so you know it doesn't take very
many generations of broken families
before things are things go seriously
sideways and so that's the other that's
something else that conservatives can
promote and offer they've done a
particularly good job of that in Hungary
with their family policies and so yes so
so I and it is and it is it is Central
really I mean for for for people to have
that level of Happiness if you you have
to have a spouse that if you're not sure
of a direction you have somebody
somebody who acts as a sounding board
you can say no you're on the right path
and to be able to to nurture young
children and and watch them grow I mean
it's uh it's it's it's there's probably
nothing more joyful and so I think that
when we we we have gone in a direction
now where you have family breakdown
fewer kids being born as well but I I
think it's also having these knock on
effects of cre creating more isolation
and more Despair and I think that there
is a way to turn it around well you know
there's another thing that's emerged and
this is all relevant I suppose to the
ongoing culture War so the sexual
Revolution which was one of the driving
forces that fragmented families let's
say promised an infinite wealth let's
say of spontaneous carnal Delights and
that's certainly a vision that's being
very much promoted by the radicals on
the left but the empirical data tell a
completely different story
the people who have the most sex are
religious married
couples it's true it's true and it's
actually quite overwhelmingly true and
there's more to that so 30% of young
people in Japan under the name of under
the age of 30 are now virgins they have
no relationships at all right the same
is true of South Korea and that trend is
powerfully beginning across the west and
so what seems to be the case is that
that of indefinite hedonistic Delights
actually devours itself and very very
rapidly so
that you don't get anything that was
promised and you don't have what you had
you know and I I think you can make a
strong case anthropologically
sociologically and psychologically that
the firm promotion of a long-term child
centered
monogamy is the best solution for high
levels of productivity on the commercial
and Industrial side for fostering the
most rigorous kind of orientation to
Future and community and that also
provides oh that keeps male violence and
female alienation radically in check
right that's a very very powerful
finding and that also ensures that the
typical person the vast majority of
typical people will have the greatest
chance at love and and gratification
over the course of their life and then
also includes of course the creation of
the what the bringing into the world of
children and the elaboration of all the
social relations that emerg in
consequence of that the conservatives
have all that right there at their
fingertips if they were brave enough to
promote it you know I know i' I've
watched this in Europe and this new
group we put together in London this
Alliance for responsible citizenship the
most intense battle we had formulating
that was on family
policy because there is a proclivity
even among conservatives not to be too
judgmental with regard to alternative
family forms let's say single mothers
and divorced people and all of the
variant forms that human intimate
relationship might take and there is a
necessity for what would you say
understanding and tolerance in that
regard but
you know you said earlier that it's
vital for the conservatives when
they're pursuing prosperity and change
to not forget to bring forward what was
vital in the past and the idea that the
nuclear family is the minimal viable
social unit is probably true you
fragment below that and you probably
destabilize your your people hence the
emerging Mental Health crisis is
especially among young women but you
also likely destabilize your society and
so tolerance for The Fringe but support
for the center and the ideal that's I
think it took it took conservatives a
little while to get there but also
embracing a a broader view of the
nuclear family and that lifelong Bond
because uh gay couples increasingly are
wanting to have children and create that
nurturing environment and there is a
growing I know you're not the the left
likes to ignore this but there is a
growing gay conservative movement and
and gay conservative contingent who
share those same values of of bonding
and monogamy and creating a family
environment and connection and working
hard and making sure you're passing on
to the next generation and believing in
free enterprise and so I I think that
that's one thing that conservatives had
a little bit of a difficult time in
modernizing their their view of what
that nuclear family looks like but I
think the principles are the same we all
we all need to find a lifemate and we
all want to create an environment that's
going to be good for raising children
and I think that that's where we're
having some commonality is is in being
able and being able to advance that
message and so I I'm I'm hopeful that
we're able to talk about it in a in a
way that is really aspirational I'm a I
think I've told you I'm a I've always
described myself as a Libertarian and I
think there's been this idea that it's
you know Freedom at all costs but I'm
more of a conservative libertarian as
yet you have the freedom to make your
choices but there are certain choices
that lead to better outcomes than others
and we should be asking people
aspirationally to to make those kind of
choices that that benefit themselves
benefit their their their family and
benefit their community and and that I
think is if we can find the language of
around how to do that maybe it provides
the counter to to what we're seeing as
the the message of of the left I I just
I find the message of the left so Bleak
I I I we have a whole generation of
young people who've been brought up to
believe that that just the basic actions
of of human life are destroying the
planet uh acting as if the that there's
no future for Humanity that that that
that there is there is no improvement
that can be made that there's too many
humans on the planet um young people who
are choosing not to have kids because
they're worried about what the future
might hold this a this a very Bleak
Vision so it's it's interesting to me
that that somehow that because it has
that spiritual component is so
attractive to young people I just I just
find to be self well they're afraid but
the thing is it's not just that they're
afraid you know because it also appeals
to their
irresponsibility so what happens to
people is if you truncate their time
Horizon so let's say you put people in a
situation where they know that they're
going to die in battle in two
weeks well they're going to party like
it there's no tomorrow because there's
no tomorrow and so if you tell people
that there's no tomorrow well that does
terrify them but it offer it also offers
them an excuse for irresponsible
Hedonism and so that's a very toxic
combination and the left has definitely
capitalized on that now the problem with
that is that it leads to Despair and so
and and not and not very long assuming
you're not dead it leads to despair
right assuming that the apocalypse
doesn't come so it's not a good
long-term solution I was writing this
morning about the end of The Exodus
story and so it's detailed out in
numbers actually and what happens is
that the Israelites are now on the edge
of the promised land so now they're
looking to actually occupy the future
and Moses sends scouts out to check out
the land and the scouts come back and
make two reports and one report is
unbelievably pessimistic it's like
there's nothing but Giants in the land
of Canaan they're going to crush us
militarily we don't have a hope the
future is dismal everything is terrible
you're a corrupt leader you led us
through the desert only for your own
power and we should go back to the
tyranny of Egypt
and that's one group of reporters and
the other group is Caleb and Joshua and
they say well there's some troubles
ahead but we can manage them and we're
going to be delivered right well what
happens is that God brings a plague in
and Strikes down the faithless
scouts and Joshua who is the Scout with
courage and Faith leads the Israelites
into the promised land and there's an
archetypical significance to that story
you know truly which is that leaders
who Envision the future are called upon
to
presume that we can manage to offer that
Vision to young people it you in faith
and courage because that's what you have
to confront the future because you don't
have the facts at hand and you never
will and you say something like like you
do when you get married and the the idea
is we can do this that's what you say
when you have kids we can do this and
it's the it's the business of leaders to
say that especially to young people that
we've got this if we put our heads
together if we abide by the proper moral
principles if we make the right
sacrifices if we're responsible we can
make the future the promised land and so
conservatives have that at
their at
their it's within their grasp if they
want to take it that Vision because as
you said the the vision of the left is
unbelievably toxic it's very Bleak I I
believe you've just called Alberta the
Promised Land cuz that's exactly how I
look at what it is we're trying to do in
Alberta and it's working I mean I I
couldn't have been more astonished at
what happened postco when we uh said
we're getting back to normal and we're
going to invest in our economy and we
want people to come here to help us
build this place it it has been more
successful than I ever could have
imagined we had over 200,000 people come
to Alberta in 2023 and they're
continuing to come and it's young
families and my view and I I just said
this I was on a radio program today
because you can look at the problems you
can say oh yes we've seen now a surge in
housing prices and we've got issues of
crowded classrooms and we've got more
people who need health care and of
course whenever you end up with uh uh
with people who F find themselves
displaced and don't get a job you do
have a problem with homelessness and
addiction but my view is I would rather
take the challenges of a growing economy
where people are wanting to solve the
problems than the reverse which is
managing the decline which is where
Alberta was at for the last 10 years and
I'm just seeing just aspirationally
because people want to come here and
want to be part of what it is that we're
providing and it's very simple the the
ones that I've met at various festivals
over the summer is you know what I can I
can afford a home here U my my dollars
go f further because the the taxes are
lower I'm I'm able to to raise my family
and have the you know have a
conversation about whether or not one of
us wants to stay at home um th th those
are the the very Basics that people are
are looking for in life and so I am
we're trying to provide that here and
and and I think and I think that people
are responding to it well if the
question is is Alberta the promised land
the answer is do people who are in the
desert want to go there and the answer
to that is yes because you have this net
influx and so people are making that
decision all by themselves is that
whatever you're offering is obviously
worth pursuing in comparison to what
they have and that is the Eternal
definition of the Promised Land you do
see that by the proclivity of people to
vote with their feet and so and it is
the case that Alberta is one of those
places
that I think Beck in property to young
people for exactly the reasons that you
just described not least because of the
this the still intact preponderance of
an essentially small C or classic
liberal ethos that that characterizes
the the not not only the the population
from the bottom up right and so it is
yeah well and it's it's interesting to
me because we actually now I think have
more conservative Premier in the country
than we have other other parties because
there's myself and then there's Scott
mowen Saskatchewan Doug Ford in in
Ontario and then we've got conservative
leaders in in Atlantic Canada as well so
there there is something that has
happened at the the subnational level uh
and those are all the services and and
that's the we are the ones who have the
primary responsibility for creating the
economic environment and the the social
support environment that's going to to
to be able to support people and so I I
think it's telling that not withstanding
the fact that we've had a dysfunctional
federal government that is operating on
an entirely different set of values that
I think is destructive for the country
in some ways at the subnational level we
have conservative leaders who I think
have been able to counteract it to a to
a large measure and maybe that'll
ultimately spill over federally maybe
people will have finally had enough I
think surprised to see the folks of
Toronto have finally had enough that I
think came as a surprise to everybody
but that's definitely kind of
miracle if even the folks in downtown
Toronto who have not voted anything
other than liberals since 1993 have said
this vision is not one I I want to buy
into that that's that's a very important
turning point I think for our country we
need it so is there anything else that
you want to bring to the attention of
albertans or Canadians or the
international people who are listening
before we close this section I want to
talk to you I think on The Daily wire
side about the vision that we're trying
to put together for conservatives
internationally um not least with our
next conference in London which will be
in February I think we there's more that
we could discuss on the vision side and
so I think that's what we'll do on the
daily we side for everybody who's
watching and listening but is there
anything else that you'd like to make a
gesture towards or have we covered the
things that we set out to explore well
the only other thing I would raise
because of course the Hollywood
Community and the uh the official voices
of of Hollywood have tried to
mischaracterize what we're doing in
Alberta on the issue of of gender
identity and supporting trans Youth and
I I've got I've got young trans people
in my life and so I always have
approached this from the perspective of
what is the best for the child and it
took us a little while to to find out
what that that pathway would look like
um I've noticed my other conservative
premieres they started with the issue of
pronouns and in some ways I think that
that wasn't getting to the heart of the
issue for me getting to the heart of the
issue was that we've enabled an
environment where kids as as young as 10
or 11 years old are being asked to make
decisions that will prevent them from
ever being able to have children again
if you go on puberty blockers and then
don't go on to go through puberty you
don't become sexually mature and you're
making a decision not to have children
before you even know what that even
means and so we started from the
healthcare side of things saying is this
good practice is this good medicine and
is it good medicine for a young person
to be
affirmed and start down a pathway of a
medicalized treatment before they've
even explored why it is they're having
some of the identity crisis that they
are and so we've made the decision and
it's a you know it's a difficult one um
but that those procedures are not going
to be available to anyone under 15 years
of age and younger um you can maybe
quibble about whether 16 or 17 is also
too young to be making those kinds of
choices I think the courts in uh in some
cases have said that 16 or 17 is a a an
age at which since kids can become
emancipated from their parents they can
start making their own medical decisions
so we we are we're limiting those kinds
of interventions hormone blockers cross-
sex hormones and medical interventions
to those who um are at least of a level
of maturity where they can begin to
understand the consequences of their
decisions and and hopefully by delaying
those kinds of uh of choices we will
have more children still able to
preserve the right to have kids of their
own one day based on the discussion that
we've had you can see why that is
important to me that uh you don't want
to cut that that pathway off to Children
Prat they're just not well it it is and
we and we just I feel like 20 years from
now those in the future will be sitting
in Judgment of those who did nothing
saying how could you have done this to
all of those children
so we want to be very supportive of
anyone who wants to take that pathway
towards actualizing what they what they
see as their true identity but it has to
be done at an age where they're mature
enough to handle the consequences of it
and so I know it's been mischaracterized
by by those who would um who who who
think anything should go but I I just
don't think you were as liberal you were
as liberal in that regard as anybody
sensible could have possibly have been I
mean the the gender affirming care
nightmare May is starting to turn around
in a vicious way we know the cast report
came out in the UK almost all the
Europeans have clued in we found out
that the W paath organization that
hypothetically put in place standards of
care was nothing but a pack of activist
jackals masquera as as medical um
experts which they were most decidedly
not we've seen the lies of the
psychological and psychiatric Community
exposed you you definitely took action
at the early end of the Turning of the
tied let's say so you know
congratulations on that front I was
watching what was happening with
Tavistock um because there's a great
podcast that is out on it and I was
watching what was happening with Dr
Hillary CL Cass had an opportunity to
talk to her as well about some of her
observations and there's just not it's
just not good Medical Practice when when
you hear of young people being able to
access cross- sex hormones on a first
visit to a doctor with 10 minutes of
assessment that is not good Medical
Practice it is Our obligation
since since in Alberta we do have a
monopoly on providing Healthcare um
ultimately when decisions are made that
are wrong it's going to come back to the
government to have to answer for them
and so I'm I'm hoping that we've charted
a path that is going to to be the the
most the most moderate approach uh but I
I I do know that we've taken I think
some some heat for that and it's been
mischaracterized in a lot of ways so I
wanted people to understand it comes
from a place of love and a place of of
respect and really from a place of just
wanting to make sure that these kids
don't make a a decision prematurely that
will just have devastating consequences
for the rest of their lives yes well I'm
glad that you brought that up it was one
of the things on on the question agenda
today and i' I'd forgotten to mention it
so well there's other things we could
discuss obviously on the education front
for example but we'll leave that for
another time thank you very much for
talking to me today um and for bringing
everybody up to date with regards to the
goings on in Canada and also providing
the outlines of a what could be a
comprehensive intelligent and inviting
view of the relationship between energy
and environmental concerns in the future
much more inviting View and much more
realistic one one that would have have a
a chance of actually surviving
implementation in the real world you're
putting that into practice in Alberta
people are flocking there and for good
reason and so well we'll chase the pack
of jackals that currently occupy Ottawa
out in next October and hopefully Canada
will
dig its out out of its current malaise
and Thrive and if that's the case it
seems likely to me that Alberta will be
on the Forefront of that not at least
because of what you've done so thank you
for that thank you and thank you for
your enduring interest in Alberta
because we we really do want to be a
model for the for the rest of Canada and
I think you're absolutely right when we
get alignment with that Federal level of
government Sky limit
[Music]